what's up NFL fans I'm Emery hunt
dissolve the playbook and don't forget
to check out and purchase your copy of
our latest football game plan book
stiff-arming football myths we have
these available in both PDF and
paperback form welcome to football game
playing calm where football makes sense
i memory hunters are of the playbook
bringing you another edition of film
session with the Czar where today we're
going to break down a game of Tevin
MacDonald free safety out of Eastern
Washington first let's get familiar with
Kevin Macdonald out of Eastern
Washington and our player profile he was
well coached out there in cheney and at
511 195 i would compare his game and
style to nate allen of the oakland
raiders and he greeted out as a second
round prospect i love the fact that he
can play anywhere in the secondary now
he has eight career interceptions for a
while at UCLA where he started his
career and 180 solo stops for his career
four forced fumbles and seven pass
breakups this season awareness is a
critical treat to have for safety year
the last line of defense entebbe
McDonald has elite level awareness which
allows him estate truth his job deeper
than the deepest when the Eastern
Washington puts him in the middle of the
field here on the first play of the game
versus the Washington Huskies was a
great example of this washington wants
to home run ball on the flea flicker but
MacDonald doesn't take the bait and
eliminates the home run ball granted
it's not a while play but it's a play
that you noticed because of what the
outcome could have been had he flew up
and try to help out versus the run this
is what you want to see as a coach here
versus Montana McDonald has no receiving
threat to his side the backer has
tightened responsibility if he goes out
in the route and that allows McDonald to
rotate over essentially banjo covering
the wire receiver which is playing him
inside out the free safety takes a hard
position to the outside and mcdonald
chases to squeeze gets great entire
position and ends up making the
interception that's a hell of a job
right there by mcdonald understanding
route concepts being aware of leverage
and what he has to take away and beats
the wide receiver to the spot and gets
the turnover and you'll see a great
illustration of this from the end zone
cam as mcdonald recognizes the route
gets on his horse beats the receiver to
the spot go
was up at his highest point and makes
the play as I mentioned before Eastern
Washington moves Kevin McDonald all over
the football field and utilizes his
skills in a variety of ways as a Blitzer
coming off the slot McDonald excels with
quickness timing and with the ability to
finish there's two types of Blitzers you
see out there coming from the secondary
those that want to scare you and those
that blitz with a purpose to put you on
the ground and mcdonald is definitely
not the former he gets the job done in
this capacity ball skills in my opinion
is everything for a defensive back can
you not only find the football but also
make a play on it and here versus
Portland State McDonald is able to sit
in the zone brakes on the football and
catches it away from his body taking it
to the house in the process here versus
Northern Colorado you'll see a nice
route combination by the Bears trying to
get McDonald caught in the trash he
stays over top plays it perfectly and
finds himself in great position to make
a plate McDonald is able to face up
attack the ball at his highest point for
the pass breakup you can tell he was
well coast at Eastern Washington because
that's textbook how he played it and
finally McDonald from the slot please
the will route perfectly avoids the
natural rubber out by the outside
receiver and is able to turn find the
football and knock it away McDonald's
eyes and hands are in unison and I say
he has above-average ball skills
your ability to make plays in space
defines you as a safety many times
you'll be put in situation's where if
you don't make the play it could be a
touchdown and whether it's flying up in
the alley to make a play versus to run
causing a fumble beating the receiver to
the spot to separate him from the
football are beating the block of a wide
receiver to make a play for a loss
MacDonald consistently is able to get it
done which is why you saw him a line in
a variety of places in that Eagles
defense I'm a big fan of McDonald's
toughness versus the running here versus
Montana State McDonald gets in the mix
like a linebacker and makes the tackle
that says a lot about a defensive back
with that type of mentality now here
versus washington with a pulling guard
coming downhill macdonald doesn't expand
the lane he stops it by taking the guard
down in addition to the tailback and
finally same game coming off the edge he
evades to block to pop the running back
and holds him for a minimal gain
MacDonald has shown throughout this
video that he's a complete football
player so as we've seen throughout the
course of this film session Kevin
McDonald can excel vs the run he also
can excel one-on-one versus wide
receivers playing the football and also
in the alley so I think this is a
complete football player very underrated
in his draft class and is definitely
worthy of a second-round great well
coached out there in eastern Washington
once again he's done a great job with
not only that program with guys like
McDonald putting him in position to be
successful
you